(talking drowned out by peaceful music)
(footsteps clicking)
- Lucien?
Well, how was it?
- All right.
- Didn't the teacher say anything to you?
- No.
- And the other children?
- Nothing.
- I've been worrying about you all day.
Perhaps it'll be all right now.
(suspenseful music)
(door clatters)
Come on Marie, the food's out already.
- Little coward.
- That's enough Marie.
- Oh ma, why did you let him do it?
You should have made him go to school.
- He did go to school,
leave the poor boy alone.
- He did not go to school.
I don't know where he's been all day,
but it certainly wasn't at school.
- Lucien?
- I met the school teacher on the way home
and he asked me where Lucien was today,
and was everything all right.
- Lucien.
(melancholy music)
- Teacher When I'm
finished with this drawing
I'd like the older ones to copy it down
in their exercise books,
we'll have more time after
the break if you need it.
- Do you know what Lucien Morell has done?
He dropped Dani's kitten into the ravine
and Dani tried to get it back.
He pushed him and Dani
fell in and broke his leg.
Do you know what Lucien Morell did?
He pushed my brother over the ravine.
- Teacher And this will be
for the younger ones as well.
I'm going to begin
with some of the ways in
which it spreads diseases.
It's such an innocent
looking little thing.
And yet it can cause so much harm.
(book slams)
(children laughing)
- Teacher Bernard.
- Sir?
- Bring me that piece of paper.
Put it on my desk.
(children laughing)
Is this your writing Annette?
- Yes sir.
- Do you really think this is necessary?
- It's true sir.
- I know it's true.
I said do you really think it's necessary?
I find it difficult to
understand Lucien's behavior,
and we're all very glad
it didn't turn out any worse than it did.
No doubt he'll think twice
before doing any such stupid thing again.
But if I hear any more malicious
gossip over this matter
I shall be very, very cross.
(children chattering)
(melancholy music)
(sobbing)
(tools tapping)
- Yes that's good.
Yes, I like it.
Oh yeah, you can't have a
Noah's Ark without lions.
(tools tapping)
You know you'll soon be able
to sell some of your models?
Would you like that?
- Do you really mean that?
- Course I do.
There's a man in the village
who sells my carvings,
we could take some of
yours and show them to him.
(peaceful music)
(tools tapping)
- At school today they announced
a handwork competition.
- Oh yes?
What's the prize going to be?
- I don't know but that
doesn't really matter.
- Aren't you going to enter?
- Yes, I'll show them I'm
better than all of them.
- Oh I'm sure you are.
Was there ever any doubt?
- I'm going to carve a galloping horse.
Its mane and its tail,
streaming out behind it.
- But why try a horse?
Why not use your Noah's Ark?
- It's a present, for a little boy.
- Your brother?
- No, he lives near me.
He got hurt in an accident.
- Oh, badly?
- Broke his leg.
- Oh dear.
Aren't you going to tell me about it?
(suspenseful music)
- He was playing up in the mountains
and a boy came and teased him.
Said he would drop his
kitten over a ravine
he wasn't really going
to, and then it happened.
And Dani went after it, I couldn't stop--
- What are you doing?
- You don't want me here now.
- Woodcarver Why ever not?
- No-one else does.
- What am I going to do
for a friend if you go now?
Come, sit down.
Come on.
That's better.
How is he now?
- His sister won't let me go and see him.
- Woodcarver Oh, is
she still angry with you?
- She's always telling
other people about it.
- Hmm, it won't be easy.
People are slow to forget.
It's a good thing you're
doing, stick at it.
Go on, don't let her discourage you.
(horse whinnies)
- Monsieur Burnier There's
Annette on the bridge.
- Dani There's Annette.
- Monsieur Burnier Hello Annette.
- Hello.
- I didn't think you
were going to get back.
- Grandma Burnier Hello.
- Now we can all go for a walk together.
- I'm afraid it's a bit soon for that.
- Why?
- Come on Dani.
- Oh.
- Careful.
There you are.
- Mind out.
Watch me.
- That's splendid Dani.
That's splendid.
- Look, one of my legs is
shorter than the other.
- Oh Dani don't be silly.
(melancholy music)
What is it?
What's the matter?
- Go on Dani, show your Granny
how you can climb the steps.
- Annette.
Dani won't ever walk again properly.
He'll always have a limp.
(melancholy music)
Eh up.
Come on.
(melancholy music)
- It's a Noah's Ark.
I made it for Dani.
- Do you know what you've done?
(suspenseful music)
(wood smashes)
Don't you ever come here again.
(melancholy music)
- Madame Morell What's the matter?
Can't you tell me?
Hmm?
(saw scraping)
- I'm sorry.
That can't have been easy.
I hope this doesn't make
you want to give up carving.
- It's all right for you.
- Maybe, we'll have to see.
(saw scraping)
- Oh, I've got something for you.
Hi, here it is
- Oh, thank you.
- Hey, have you heard?
- The young Burnier child's
going to have a permanent limp.
- No.
- Aye.
- What a shame.
- It's not right is it?
He should be locked up, he should.
- All right just give him time.
- Girl Oh Annette, is
this for the competition?
- Girl Gosh it's marvelous isn't it?
- Annette I was making
it for Dani anyway.
- Oh Annette it's bound to win the prize.
- No, I think Bernard's
going to get the prize.
- Oh we've got a dog just like that.
- It's not a dog you idiot, it's a bear.
- Girl Oh I'm sorry, I
really did think it was a dog.
- Come on, anyone can see it's a bear.
(melancholy music)
(tools scraping)
- You're not as stupid
as you look are you?
- You'll see, when you win the prize
they'll all want to be your friends.
Come on, let's eat.
(suspenseful music)
(wood cracking)
- Annette!
Look what I found in the woodpile.
I found a rhinoceros, a
buffalo and a tortoise.
I think the fairies made them, don't you?
- Don't be so stupid.
(melancholy music)
- Mama have you taken my horse?
- Madam Morell No, Marie
have you taken Lucien's horse?
- Marie No.
- Madam Morell Are you sure
you didn't bring it in with you?
- No.
- Marie Could it have
blown off the balcony?
- Oh no.
(melancholy music)
- Oh Lucien.
- Has it broken?
- Madam Morell How could it!
- Oh, somebody's trodden on it.
- Why can't people mind
where they're going?
Oh.
(melancholy music)
Isn't there anything we can do with it?
- Oh hello.
- Hi.
- Woodcarver How goes the carving?
When are you going to win that prize?
- I'm not going to win that prize.
My horse is all smashed.
- Oh no.
Oh I am sorry.
- It fell over and someone
must have trampled on it.
Now I can't enter anything
for the competition.
- Well, you could enter something else.
What about the chamois set you did?
That was quite good.
- I didn't have the proper tools then
and they'll think I
can't do anything better.
- Woodcarver Well, does
it matter what they think?
- Yes.
- Why?
- Because they all hate me
and they think I'm no good.
- And you think that winning that prize
will make them think better of you?
They won't.
- Then what's the point of trying?
- Because you have to earn
the love and respect of others
and you'll never do that by
doing things for yourself.
But who am I to be talking of winning
the love and respect of other people?
- Yes.
- Come here.
I hope you can keep a secret,
because I'm going to tell you something
I've never told anyone else.
I robbed a bank once.
Oh it's all right this isn't it, sit down.
I used to work at the bank once.
I stole the money bit by bit
over a long period of time
until they caught me.
They put me in prison.
I left my wife, Anna,
to look after two small children.
She.
No.
She was a good woman.
A godly woman.
And it...
It killed her.
The humiliation that is.
She just couldn't take it.
My two boys didn't know me
when I got out of prison.
They were fairly well
established in their careers.